{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red74\green144\blue217;\red100\green100\blue100;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs40 IsotopeTrack v1.0.1\par}
{\pard\sa200\f0\fs24\cf3 A comprehensive software application for analyzing single particle ICP-ToF-MS (Inductively Coupled Plasma Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry) data.\par}

{\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Key Features\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
\tab \bullet\tab Multi-isotope particle detection\line
\tab \bullet\tab Transport rate & ionic calibration\line
\tab \bullet\tab Support for NU Instruments folders (run.info), TOFWERK files (.h5) and CSV formats\line
\tab \bullet\tab Interactive visualization and data exploration\line
\tab \bullet\tab Batch processing capabilities\line
\tab \bullet\tab Comprehensive export options\par}

{\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\b\fs32 System Requirements\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs28 macOS \'97 Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3)\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
\tab \bullet\tab macOS 11.0 (Big Sur) or later\line
\tab \bullet\tab Apple Silicon M1 / M2 / M3 native bundle\line
\tab \bullet\tab 4 GB RAM (8 GB recommended)\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs28 macOS \'97 Intel\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
\tab \bullet\tab macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or later\line
\tab \bullet\tab Intel x86_64 native bundle\line
\tab \bullet\tab 4 GB RAM (8 GB recommended)\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs28 Windows\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
\tab \bullet\tab Windows 10 (64-bit) or later\line
\tab \bullet\tab 4 GB RAM (8 GB recommended)\par}

{\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Downloads\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
\tab \bullet\tab {\b IsotopeTrack_M.dmg} \'97 for Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3) Macs\line
\tab \bullet\tab {\b IsotopeTrack_Intel.dmg} \'97 for Intel Macs\line
\tab \bullet\tab {\b IsotopeTrack_Windows.exe} \'97 for Windows 10/11\par}

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Recommended Workflow\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 1 \emdash  Load Sample Data\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Click {\b Import Data} in the File menu or sidebar. Load all samples you plan to analyze in a single session to ensure consistent processing parameters.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 2 \emdash  Choose Isotopes\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Use the periodic table interface to select the isotopes of interest. Selected isotopes in the main window are carried automatically into the calibration panels.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 3 \emdash  Ionic Calibration (Sensitivity)\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Configure ionic calibration to convert raw counts to mass. Use -1 to exclude samples from specific calibration sets. IsotopeTrack tests three calibration models and selects the best R\'b2.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 4 \emdash  Transport Rate Calibration\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Calibrate aerosol transport efficiency using one of three methods: mass-based, number-based, or weighted liquid. Average multiple measurements or select the most reliable single value.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 5 \emdash  Mass Fraction & Density\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 For each sample, specify the mass fraction of the target element and the particle density from the built-in materials database.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 6 \emdash  Set Detection Parameters\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Configure detection method, confidence level, minimum peak points, and optional smoothing for each element individually or via {\b Batch Edit Parameters}.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 7 \emdash  Review Results in Canvas\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Use the results canvas to visualize and validate the analysis. Adjust parameters as needed based on visual inspection.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 8 \emdash  Export Data\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Export a {\b summary file} (all samples and elements, statistics, concentrations, calibration info) and/or a {\b details file} (individual particle data per sample).\par}

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Data Loading\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 Supported Formats\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
\tab \bullet\tab {\b Folder with run.info} \'97 Raw data from TOF Vitesse and TOFWERK .h5 files\line
\tab \bullet\tab {\b CSV files} \'97 Time-series data\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 CSV Format Requirements\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
\tab \bullet\tab First column must be {\b Time} (units: ms, ns, or s)\line
\tab \bullet\tab Each element column must include mass number + element symbol (e.g., 107Ag)\line
\tab \bullet\tab Data must be provided in counts\par}

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Calibration\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 Ionic Calibration\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Establishes the relationship between elemental concentration and instrument response. The system evaluates three models (Simple Linear, Linear with intercept, Weighted Linear) and automatically selects the highest R\'b2. Manual override is available.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 Transport Rate Calibration\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Determines the efficiency of aerosol transport into the plasma. Available methods: mass-based, number-based, and weighted liquid.\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs22\cf3 Reference: Pace, H. E., et al. (2011). Analytical Chemistry, 83, 9361\'969369. https://doi.org/10.1021/ac201952t\par}

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Detection Methods\par}

{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24
{\b Currie Method} \'97 Classical detection based on Poisson statistics.\line
{\b Formula C} \'97 MARLAP-based method balancing false positives and negatives.\line
{\b Compound Poisson Log-Normal} \'97 Advanced method accounting for signal distribution characteristics.\line
{\b Manual} \'97 User-defined threshold value.\par}

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Export Options\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 Summary File\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Data for all samples and elements, statistical summaries (mean, median, standard deviation), particle concentrations, calibration information and method parameters.\par}

{\pard\sb200\sa80\f0\b\fs26 Details File\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 Individual particle data for each sample, complete particle-by-particle information, peak characteristics and integration results.\par}

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs32 Citation\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 When using IsotopeTrack in your work, please cite:\par}
{\pard\sa200\f0\fs22\cf3 Ahabchane H, Goodman A, Hadioui M, Wilkinson K. IsotopeTrack: A fast and flexible application for the analysis of SP-ICP-TOF-MS datasets. Environmental Chemistry 2026; EN25111.\line https://doi.org/10.1071/EN25111\par}

{\pard\sb400\sa100\f0\b\fs32 License\par}
{\pard\sa100\f0\fs24 See the LICENSE file included with this distribution.\par}

}
